docs: Fix and improve `CONTRIBUTING.md` and `i18n-guidelines.md` (#88)
open-sauced/intro: i18n-guidelines.md

# 🌐 i18n Guidelines

Welcome to our i18n Guidelines! We appreciate your interest in translating our Intro to Open Source course.

At the moment, we have the course in the following languages:

- English
- [French](https://intro.opensauced.pizza/#/translations/fr/README)
- Brazilian Portuguese — work in progress

> ## How Can I Contribute?
> 
> - **Translate our README**. There are two methods of translation contributions we accept.
>   - **Official Translations**: Official translations start as a post in our discussion board. If there is enough interest and volunteers, we can add the official translation as an option to view within our README.
>   - **Community Translations**: We can’t always support the maintenance of translations. However, we do know that there are contributors out there willing to translate. For that reason, we have our Community Translations section. If you’ve forked the repository and created a translation, you can add a link to your forked translation to `community-translations.md`. We encourage you to also add it to the discussion board in the event it becomes popular enough and has enough support to be moved to an official translation.
> - **Review PRs and translations.** New to reviewing GitHub PRs and translations? No worries, we have you covered in our [Reviewer Process Guide](#reviewer-process-guide).

Author: As there are changes in this file, we might as well want to restructure this section as below:

```suggestion
## How Can I Contribute?

There are two types of contributions that we accept:

1. Translate our Intro to Open Source course
2. Review PRs and translations

### Translate the Intro to Open Source Course

We have two types of translations:

#### 1. Official Translations

Official translations start as a post in our discussion board. If there is enough interest and volunteers, we can add the official translation as an option to view within our README.

#### 2. Community Translations

We can’t always support the maintenance of translations. However, we do know that there are contributors out there willing to translate. For that reason, we have our Community Translations section. If you’ve forked the repository and created a translation, you can add a link to your forked translation to `community-translations.md`. We encourage you to also add it to the discussion board in the event it becomes popular enough and has enough support to be moved to an official translation.

### Review PRs and Translations

If you are familiar with the translated language(s), you can help us review the translations and the PRs.

Are you new to reviewing GitHub PRs and translations? No worries! We  have you covered in our [Reviewer Process Guide](#reviewer-process-guide).
```

Reviewer: I like this version @adiati98z. We just need to hyperlink where it says *discussion board** so contributors can find it.

# 🌐 i18n Guidelines

Welcome to our i18n Guidelines! We appreciate your interest in translating our Intro to Open Source course.

At the moment, we have the course in the following languages:

- English
- [French](https://intro.opensauced.pizza/#/translations/fr/README)
- Brazilian Portuguese — work in progress

## How Can I Contribute?

There are two types of i18n contributions that we accept:

1. Translate our Intro to Open Source course.
2. Review pull requests (PRs) and translations.

### Translate the Intro to Open Source Course

We have two types of translations:

#### 1. Official Translations

Official translations start as a post on our [discussion board](https://github.com/open-sauced/intro/discussions). If there is enough interest and volunteers, we can add the official translation as an option to view within our README.

#### 2. Community Translations

> We can’t always support the maintenance of translations. However, we know that some contributors are willing to translate. For that reason, we have our Community Translations section. If you've forked the repository and created a translation, you can add a link to your forked translation to the `community-translations.md` file.

Author: Do we now have the Community Translation section? Or do we still need to create this section?

This part is not clear yet as in how to create a community translation when folks are interested to translate our course outside our official translations.

> If you've forked the repository and created a translation ...

It might have been clearer if we put it this way (if this is the intention):

> If you're interested in translating our Intro to OSS course, fork this repo and add the translation in you forked repo. Then you you can add a link to your forked translation to the `community-translations.md` file.

Reviewer: At the moment, we don't. @BekahHW what do you think about this?

Author: @BekahHW is this related to issue #71?

That we create a `community-translations.md` with content as below:

```markdown
# Community Course Translations

We are grateful for the contributions of the community in translating this course. Although the OpenSauced team does not currently maintain these projects, we want to share the forked copy of the repositories with those taking the course. Below, you will find the latest community translations.

## Community Translations

- [Translated Language](link to the forked repo)
```

1. **Identify target languages**.

   Determine which languages you want to add translations for. Make sure these languages are relevant to the project's user base.

2. **Create translation files**.

   Inside the "translations" directory, create a new subdirectory for each language you plan to support. Use language codes (e.g., "en" for English, "fr" for French) as directory names.

   ```markdown
   .
   └── translations/
      ├── en/ (English)
      ├── fr/ (French)
      └── es/ (Spanish)
   ```

3. **Translate content**.

   - For each language directory, create translated versions of the documentation files. Typically, you translate Markdown files but consider other formats as needed.
   - Maintain the same file names and structure as in the original documentation but with translated content.

4. **Update links**.

   In the translated files, ensure that any internal links (e.g., links to other sections or pages within the documentation) are updated to point to the corresponding translated content.

> 5. **Add language selector**.

Author: What does it mean by language selector? Is it the flag icon?
If so, should we also mention how to add it here?

Reviewer: We have a drop down menu at the moment, and in the Brazilian-PR, we added a flag icon. Check it out:

Author: We also have English and French flags in the dropdown menu. Should we add the instructions on how to add the menu here?

Reviewer: That would be helpful @adiati98

6. **Testing and validation**.

   Test the translated documentation to ensure accuracy and readability. Ensure all links work correctly and the content is culturally appropriate.

7. **Submit translations**.

   If you haven't already, submit your translations as a PR. Ensure you provide clear information about the languages you've translated and any specific details related to your contributions.

8. **Collaborate and review**.

   Collaborate with other contributors and reviewers to ensure the quality of translations. Be open to feedback and suggestions for improvement.

### Best Practices for Translations

- Maintain consistency in terminology and style throughout the translated documentation.
- Work with another contributor who speaks the language you're translating to.
- It helps to mention specific tools you use so developers who want to translate documentation can see how it's done.
- Keep translations up to date with changes in the original documentation.

## Reviewer Process Guide

When it comes to reviewing a translation PR, ask yourself the following questions:

- Does the current translation match the instructions in the English version?

> - Are there links that could be localized? (e.g., Wikipedia and MDN links)

Author: Links that could be localized for what purpose?

Reviewer: To see if it has a translation option mostly.

Author: Hmmm... Sorry. I still don't get it 😅

Reviewer: It means if the other source can be translated too @adiati98 😁

Author: Ah, okay.

Should we say:

```suggestion
- Are there links that could be localized and translated? (e.g., Wikipedia and MDN links)
```
